in most forms of small-scale politics
there's some kind of dividing line
between the insider discourse in the
outsider discourse and within my life
nowhere was this more dramatic than in
First Nations politics so first nations
is the term we use in canada to refer to
american indians to native Canadians
whatever you want to say first nations
is the term we use for that the people
who were in Canada the descendants of
the people who were in Canada prior to
European colonialism my engagement with
those politics ethnically I have no
native blood I am a white person to be
blunt and I showed up I enrolled in the
native languages I started studying
Korean a jib way and i did so openly
with an interest in the politics and the
future of those languages in those
cultures in canada which is different
from any white man many white men are
only addressed in the past and we
interest in history they're only
interested in a kind of Musial ah gical
approach which is to say their interest
in how that culture is going to be put
into a museum and remembered or they're
interested in studying folklore and
tradition from the past and for me I was
really thinking about the political
present and the political future and a
lot of First Nations people was talking
to got very excited about me and my
research in the positive contribution I
can make for that reason to give one
example I remember I used to talk to
people about doing research about the
Vietnam War about First Nations peoples
and their memories of their involvement
with the Cold War you know the era when
people in Canada real especially
northern Canada were really justifiably
terrified that a huge war was United
States and Russia was going to happen
any time involving nuclear weapons when
I talked like I said people they were
just getting incredibly excited because
they never met anyone who even thought
about First Nations that way you know
what I mean when they met white people
they would they would think about they
would imagine or native people as if
they lived in the ancient past and they
don't they live in the modern world you
know they eat pizza and they drive cars
and they joined the army and they sit
and watch the evening news and they
wonder oh my god is there going to be a
nuclear war that's going to destroy the
world's we know it and they were able to
same ecological political problems that
white people
do although from a different perspective
and of course they have the unique
challenge of trying to prevent their own
languages from going extinct to some
extent preventing their own culture
their own dances their own music their
own religion for going extinct so there
are of course unique aspects but
fundamentally they're living in the 21st
century just like you and me but when I
was involved with First Nations politics
and again I kind of show up just saying
look I'm a talented guy I've worked on a
lot of obscure languages before I've
worked on a lot of very difficult
political problems before this my
background in politics is my background
in languages including indigenous ethnic
minority languages I want to do
something positive this so i am but with
no claim to being an insider it was
amazing to me how quickly i made the
transition from being involved in the
outside of this course to being involved
in the insider discourse so as an
example of this you know several times
when i was on the First Nations
University campus people said to me in
this very strangely confessional way
like as if they were telling me
something really bad they were ashamed
of they'd say oh you know um I'm doing a
project up on the fourth floor no I'm
sorry if I forget maybe it was the third
floor this is from memory i forget but
it was just a floor like that and I'd
seen that floor like I'd been there it
looked like any other floor in any other
you know office building so at first I
did not get the significance that at all
and you know i would kind of say oh you
know good for you so what's you know
what's your project what are you what
are you working on and then again they'd
say in a really kind of reluctant way as
if they're confessing to you that
they're dealing drugs or doing something
really really bad tell you know it's
this project to try to help kids who've
dropped out of school or they'd say oh
you know it's this project to study
access to hospitals really positive
things again at first I just don't get
like what's my talking about this later
that's oh wow that's great i'm really
happy for you you know when and I would
say like oh that's great sounds like a
wonderful project you know or maybe I'd
say oh that reminds me of a project I
did in Cambodia you don't want a similar
issue you know and they kind of look at
me and and squint and look down their
feet and they'd say well it
only short-term you know it's only a
contract only be a couple of months like
as if they're talking about something
really bad so later I figured out what
it was when they were saying the project
was on the fourth floor that was code
for it's not my project and it's not the
university's project and it's not a
project that answers to the indigenous
government the First Nations government
it's a project funded by and controlled
by the federal government by the
Canadian government by you know the kind
of evil political enemies of the native
people trying to watch all I didn't know
germs inside our politics was outside of
politics I had no way of imagine you
know how was I gonna guess the floor
that it's on tells you where the money's
come from tells you who's in charge you
know it's a great example of inside
politics or is outside of politics right
but those the things you learn um it's a
little disturbing to me that right now I
mean in terms of insider politics or
results at our politics and veganism we
kind of have all these dotted lines that
are supposed to be about who hates who
who's sleeping with who who supports
whose career in terms of making money
who's willing to lie into Fame who etc
etc you know um I made a video ages ago
it's not that good video to be honestly
I look back at it a couple of weeks ago
because I remembered it fondly but I
made a video that was cold drama not
meaningless drama and in that video I
said look I'm not against drama we got
to have drama about meaningful important
things and the recent controversy my
channel illustrates that where I was
really talking about look I'm happy to
address you know that what my own
comments on Gary Yourofsky in cary
France ela and abolitionism serious
political issues serious questions about
effective activism and philosophy and
politics and veganism let's let's break
it down let's talk about it let's let's
really talk about it I'm even I'm
totally willing to talk about okay an
ethical issue in an intellectual issue
like I'm saying Nina and Randa did
something immoral in endorsing taco bell
in advertising Taco Bell it's just a
comment made in passing those trip
that's a really serious issue and I
think it
think that could raise all kinds of
debate and discussion doesn't but I'm
just saying this is more substantive but
if you want to take that video that
raises all of those points and more and
talks about breeze Harper and will
tuttle and the world peace diet and
raises the issue of kind of Buddhist and
Hindu mysticism within vegan as did
there are so many big issues for us to
debate in for us to have drama though in
that one video there was so much there
and it links to and shows on screen
videos have made addressing since the
past you want to take that and reduce it
to being a hot or not video that's what
you want to make it into you know what I
mean you want to turn this into a drama
about you know who would you rather or
who's who's hot who's not and I just got
to say no that's not what the video is
about and that's not what the drama
should be about if you're really vegan
if you're really concerned about the
future of the movement etc etc help Todd
well that too but I mean I raised that
issue for a very clear purpose for a
point etc I've made the point and now
let's you know let's let's not have
meaningless drama if you want to drown
with me you know let's let's really do
it um now the first time I ever heard
the name Jeff Nelson because I didn't
know the guy to me he wasn't famous um I
you know this is all micro fame a few
thousand people know who you are and a
lot of people start to think themselves
the same so the first time I ever heard
Jeff Nelson's name was when one of my
fans a supporter on patreon sent me an
email with screen shots of his
conversation with Jeff Nelson I know
Jeff Nelson was but this supporter of my
on patreon had written to Jeff saying
the Jeff ought to take a stand against
during writer what durianrider was doing
in Chiang Mai I was still in Chiang Mai
I think and at that time during writer
was threatening to beat me up etc he was
there to beat me up take me to the
police station at least once he talked
about having me killed but you know
whatever these these threats along with
the course very serious defamation and
what have you so I think it was on
Jeff's blog his tumblr or something Jeff
replied in a very kind of stupid
a to this supporter of my writing to him
and saying look this is a really
important issue you should take a stand
on it but I didn't write to Jeff and
when my fan my supporter sent me the
screenshots of that at that time i did
not know who jeff nelson was so you know
i took the name in google debt and I
realized like oh yeah like I'd seen his
image before I had seen him in someone
else's video or something like that you
know what I mean it was like oh yeah
right okay that guy like at some point
I'd seen him in some video from some
festival or something you know and at
that point I figured out okay so there
was this old website called veg source
and he's you know the manager of that
but I had no interest I had no concern I
wasn't a fan but I also didn't dislike
him he was not part of my life in any
which way now months later you know I
didn't care um you know also at that
time I looked into it seemed like well
Jeff was a guy who always supported
during Ryder so it wasn't surprising he
was going to continue to support to
every miners that was it I didn't give
it any more thought now at any stage of
this why would I even bother talking to
someone like Jeff I want to talk about
that for just a minute here what
motivates me to reach out and talk to
any vegans and as a side note it's
always been especially sad and
lamentable to me that people including
durianrider denounced and defame me for
talking to hundreds of vegans where
durianrider would say that I was this is
proof that I was a bad person or up to
no good that I had sent emails to
hundreds of vegans and it's the opposite
look I really reach out to and of course
when several hundreds of vegans almost
none of them are famous almost none of
them are successful I'm not trying to
get youtube use out of it like even we
talked about youtubers most of these
people have 10 views on YouTube they
have YouTube channels that only their
friends and family know about but yeah
you know you're damn right over the last
three years i have written emailed
hundreds of vegans as for the cause you
know I'm networking for that reason for
me the only reason to reach out to
someone like Jeff is really political
take a step hold on
and I mean political in a very positive
sense some people are here on YouTube
for fame some people are here on YouTube
for sex some people are here on YouTube
for money and um good luck there ain't
much of any one of those three things to
go around but if that's true here for
you know I don't even hate on the game
that's just a different game from what
I'm playing and I'm in the category of
people wear what positively motivates me
what rewards my behavior what really
makes this whole exercise worthwhile is
the dream the dream of making a positive
difference in the world that's why I
take the time to write to Jeff that's
why I take the time to write to vegan
Ava that's why I took the time to
apologize to freely like a lot of my
behavior on the internet if you wonder
why did I bother talking these people
and some of them are despicable and some
of them are wonderful and most of us are
a mix of the two it really is the dream
of making something positive happen in
terms of real world vegan activist in
terms of the cult core issues of ecology
ethics veganism itself as a diet if you
like etc etc and I've been through this
stuff before I mean not to digress from
a digression I had a supporter write to
me saying just lamenting so terrible you
know the conduct of these vegans is so
terrible it's so depressing people are
so more this is the worst community I've
ever seen community that's not a
community etc etc and I remember I wrote
back to her and said well I'll be honest
you I've seen worse Buddhism was worse
my involvement with Buddhism as a
community or as a political movement
it's worse my involvement with or my
witnessing of you know left-wing
politics in Canada in general is worse
what I saw in terms of the Green Party
of Canada ecological politics defined as
ecology not to find us vegan or animal
rights is worse and their movements I
was not a part of but that I witnessed
the rise and fall of if you
look back at something like a narco
primitivism that was really a big deal
right up to about 2001-2002 that was
really where a lot of the action was
that before veganism took off as a
category it's worse so no I've seen
worse things as bad as this is so you
know my behavior reaching out to these
people and doing a lot of what I do is
in that sense political and it's very
positive because it's based on the hope
and the aspiration that you talked to
enough of these people you reach out
positively you see what do we have in
common these aspirations we have to song
quote to save the planet to save the
animals to do something positive or at
least to promote a diet and lifestyle
because that is part of it can we work
together make something positive and
sometimes the answer is yes I never
thought I'd be friends with vegan gains
it's an unlikely pairing but vegan gains
is someone I reached out to him back
when his channel had only a few thousand
or a few hundred viewers i think i think
it was he was already at about 3,000 but
you know he was a small channel when i
first talked him and now here we are
years later and he and I you know really
become friends I'm I would have never
expected that like in terms of people I
have things in common with I might have
expected to instead become friends some
lakenya who is also someone I reached
out to and someone I've talked to you
this much but we're not friends now okay
that's probably because I am friends
with Enya's ex-boyfriend you know there
are other issues there but whatever I
just say there's no way for me to judge
before you reach out to people on try to
make those connections who can you have
a productive collaborative relationship
with and even though so at this stage
coming back to my story um I know Jeff
Nelson's over 60 years old why not why
shouldn't Jeff Nelson and I become
colleagues or friends like just looking
at it on the face you know why do I have
less in common with Jeff Nelson than I
do with vegan gains there's just no way
off the bat you gotta approach people
I'm sorry this is my advice to you my
advice to you is approach people with an
open heart and an open mind and see if
you can make some positive
and that's what I did with Jeff Nelson
even when he behaved like a scumbag
towards me even when he showed that he's
as immature as any 16 year old in the
internet even when he showed to me again
and again that you know he's a
despicable person by my standards um you
know because I again I wouldn't even
call that optimism it's just what
motivates me and I had someone asking me
today a for whatever reason he asked the
sort of overly humble way he said Oh
sometime could I appear on their channel
could we do a podcast together or
something and he said to me I don't know
if you have some minimum standard like
you only have people on if they have
only a certain number of thousands of
yours thousands of subscribers I said no
no all the time scroll through much I've
had people on my channel who had 30
viewers 10 subscribers I've promoted
channels when nobody heard of them and
some of those channels have gone on to
become popular and some of them have
remained unknown but no know anyone
who's doing real content anyone who's
sincere vegan I'm out here trying to
make those connections and I'll just
mention unlike Jeff a back when
durianrider defamed me and threatened to
beat me up a whole lot of those people
stood up to be counted so one that
sticks out in my mind there's a woman
who mostly does cooking videos and
fitness videos so just not my kind of
thing she's a vegan but just different
genre from me and she uses the tag you
know that vegan mom and she said in the
video she said look you know I know this
guy and I trust this guy something you
know she knows me and trust me to some
extent because um I'd written her I just
sent her email back when her channel was
pretty new back when nobody knew she was
she had very very few viewers and I just
wrote to her in a totally sincere way
you know talk about talk about veganism
etc uh which is true it's a pretty
distant memory that's a couple years ago
I say her channel was new and nobody
heard of it and it was just interesting
me she was an example of someone for
whom that just left a positive
impression in memory and she just came
on camera and said look I know this guy
I know this guy enough to know that what
he's doing is is sincere and is
motivated by real interest in vegan
activism and this is ridiculous to see
him victimized this way now
we talked with three categories people
here there are people who did that who
just made some kind of positive comment
about me or you know even just privately
sent me an email in sympathy you know
what that means a lot to me they're all
kinds of people that didn't make a video
didn't make a public statement but you
just sent me an email saying wow man I'm
sorry to hear about this thing in Chiang
Mai this is really tough for you you
know wish you the best whatever okay
that's one category of people there
people who said nothing it's another
category people and then there are
people like Jeff Nelson who waited for
their chance to try to stunt who waited
for their chance to try to insult me and
take durianrider side and try to gain
notoriety and viewers to doing it that's
who jeff nelson was he was that third
category and before this I didn't care
about him I didn't know who he was but
as I've just said at length
fundamentally I was interested trying to
make some positive happen because he's a
vegan and again if you just look on the
surface why would vegan gains be my
friend and not Jeff Nelson I don't know
oh I like if all I know what Jeff Nelson
is he's 60 years old and he cares about
veganism I don't know who am i close to
an age my closer to Jeff Nelson and a
germ I closer to vegan gains yeah I
don't know i have like I don't know old
Richard is ash I don't know if old vegan
gains it but you know okay you know
whatever and you know someone like that
even if they've insulted me on the
Internet I'm gonna give them a chance um
I'm gonna say to them okay this is who I
am you may have no idea who I really am
because one apparently the only things
you know about me come from durianrider
now I think you have to be really pretty
stupid to take durianrider at his word
and not click on my channel and see my
version of events I do think that that's
uh yeah I'm losing confidence in your
intelligence if this is your approach to
life but I was obvious to me at the
start that Jeff the little bit he knew
about me was from nonsense durianrider
had said and maybe some of Durand
writers supporters it said in the
internet okay but I'm going to give you
the chance and I'm pretty confident that
if you're basically an intelligent
being um you know you're gonna take a
look at my videos or hear what I have to
say and you're gonna realize that I'm a
sincere vegan you may hate me anyway you
may disagree with me it's fine but you
know you're not gonna regard me as a
shill secretly working for the meat and
dairy industry you're not gonna regard
me as a CIA agent trying to destroy
veganism from within you're not going to
regard me as someone whose whole
backstory xulai someone who's never been
to university someone who never lived in
Laos and Cambodia because the level of
defamation at the time wasn't just about
my sex life the level of defamation was
so high they created a whole parallel
universe where everything is upside down
including a parallel universe in which i
instigated the problem with durianrider
which is completely false right so it is
the ultimate victim-blaming it's blaming
me for what during writer did so that's
the foot you're starting off with Jeff
Nelson so by the way i'm recording this
with with comets coming alive so someone
asked when did he insult you before
calling his daughters early um for one
thing I called them not beautiful and I
very very you know specifically said
that compared to other people who are
going to be in Hollywood going to
editions for the same role they do not
stand out as strikingly beautiful so
that is a very reasonable criticism for
anyone and talent agents are going to
tell you the same thing a show business
is tough I'm not going to the only
person to tell you some of that and it's
not this is not an outrageous statement
for anyone to make any circumstances but
I didn't say ugly I just said they're
not beautiful in that in that context
but when did he insult me know that was
back at that time says months ago now
but also a couple of months after the
conflict with during writer was really
popping case I'm just gotta pause you if
my lighting is kind of flashing in and
out
sorry guys all right there we go so I
mentioned this is my camera having
trouble with the natural light and the
artificial lighting being on screen the
same time uh so just to clarify so what
was now again also I don't really mind
the insults but what Jeff Nelson said to
me what was insulting in my attempt to
reply to it he very quickly lost track
of what he was saying why he was saying
it initially what Jeff Nelson said in
insulting me was that I should stand up
for myself okay it's the lighting in a
stabilized here is the lighting all
right all right okay you can see me um
so what Jeff said initially in insulting
me publicly on YouTube was that I should
stand up for myself I E versus
durianrider and then this is the second
thing so it's there are two categories
of insult or approach here and again
like it just shows that he only knew
about the situation from Duran rider
from lies that were told about me just
didn't know what happened but I don't
know like I think it'd be very easy for
someone take the opposite perspective
easy to criticize me and say I stood up
for myself too much but no his claim was
that I ought to stand up for myself um
and then his second category of
complaint uh sorry he was claiming that
I should have stood up for myself and
his second category of complaint oh
right was that I was in Chiang Mai for
no good reason that I had no excuse that
simply by being in Chiang Mai it was all
my fault and that I should be blamed for
everything during writer did including
really criminal conduct so that was
Jeff's taken in time now it's stupid as
those two statements are because they
are really stupid if you're familiar
with the general facts a situation of
the case they still are rational
misconceptions that I can answer you
know I can I can reply to that I can
address what he misunderstood alright so
my camera is acting up again here I
could close the drapes so that we just
have artificial light alright let's see
if we can make this work
and my response to him was to write to
him and I wasn't angry but I said look
Jeff I can by the way jeff has given me
permission to read his emails on the
internet he stated that both privately
and publicly he encouraged me to do so
uh hi sorry people saying hi to me from
the audience welcome welcome to chat
Jeff encouraged me to read his emails
publicly on YouTube and he did that just
because he felt he had provide me with
good advice so there was no shade in
that but he said that I should take the
advice I'd that he'd given me and that I
should discuss it openly on youtube so
you know that's fine there was no no no
malice in that but at the time I didn't
get mad at Jeff I saw him as somebody
who on the one hand was really
completely misinformed somebody didn't
know what even happened in Chiang Mai
either because he was listening to
durianrider other people who were just
as much intentionally lying as
durianrider and also frankly he seemed
to me stupid he seemed to be stupid and
to lack curiosity into lack rigor but
Jeff did start it because at that time
he came on the internet and insulted me
repeatedly he made two videos that were
insulting towards me but it was mostly
in written comments on YouTube written
comments and on his blog his other
platforms and he started doing it then
when I had already left Chiang Mai I was
already here in China and kunming there
was no reason for it aside from Jeff
seeing an opportunity for his own
self-promotion and at that time Jeff had
kind of decided to stick his neck out
and talk a lot of trash about
durianrider but he was it was a weird
thing he was still kind of supporting
durianrider but he was also talking
trash with her right it was just
self-promotion on his part and again
like okay so the two misconceptions are
talking about so misconception one um if
you think I didn't stand up for myself
well I did durianrider threatened have a
gang of thugs beat me up and my reply
was where do you want to meet I was
willing to get the teeth knocked out of
my mouth I was willing to bleed for this
I didn't care and during writer has
turned that around and now claims that I
was threatening him which was never true
during writer threatened me but I didn't
back down now why did during my
do that we have a little bit of a
boiling frog scenario just so exactly
one year earlier during my did the same
thing to a totally harmless and really
boring guy on YouTube oh god what was
his name he changed his name to
something like astrological numismatics
he was this guy passion and fruit that
was his name of the time so there's this
guy named passion and fruit who was
really harmless and in Chiang Mai at
that time during writer did exactly the
same thing one year earlier threatened
to have a gang of people beat him up
blah blah blah and when you look into it
this is actually behavior during writer
has done again and again but the
difference is in most cases durianrider
was not in the same place as the people
he was threatening so often you know
they were just in two separate cities in
Australia you know so whatever he was
threatening somebody saying a gang of
carved up people would come and beat
them up and posting people's addresses
on the internet so daxing them posting
their private mission generator had done
this again and again and nobody had put
him in check during writer had seriously
defamed people again again I'm a
criminal act allegations against people
again again nobody to put him in check
and then I was the first person who
actually stood up for myself and said no
you want to beat me up ok see me when
you see me where do you want to do this
um where do you want to meet I don't
mind you know I don't again I'm not
trying to fight i'm trying to win but
this cannot just be that goes
on unchecked forever when he said so
durianrider said he would take me to the
police and he would charge me with a
serious crime he pedophilia was in the
list but he may just vaguely said some
bunch of serious crimes you and I said
ok let's meet you want to meet at the
police station where do you want to meet
if you're gonna report me to the police
let's go let's do this you've threatened
on the internet that you're going to put
me in jail let's do it that was the
situation that so you made serious
criminal allegations guns me serious
defamation serious threats of violence
and I did stand up for myself I 110
percent stood up for myself so to have
Jeff insulting me publicly in terms of
where he started our private
conversation Jeff saying that my problem
is I should have stood up for myself and
I like I didn't but like I should in the
present tense that like I should
standing up for myself and I'm not it's
like Jeff you obviously don't know the
basic facts of what happened whether
that's because Jeff heard it from during
writer or someone just as crazy just as
dishonest or I don't know but it's like
I think you could say the opposite you
could fault me for standing up for
myself too much if someone said that I'd
be like okay that's a rational argument
you know maybe when someone threatens to
beat you up it makes false criminal
allegations against you maybe you
shouldn't say okay let's meet up see me
too you know maybe my way of handling it
nobody else handle that way and I did by
the way at that time I got emails
thanking me from other people whom
durianrider had really bullied and
victimized in the past and people need
defamed in the past i did get family of
people saying thank you you did what I
couldn't do now you guys already know
the end of the story the story ends with
during writer totally think tout he was
a coward during writer was a physical
coward as well as an intellectual coward
he never met me he never showed up he
neither was willing to debate me or
discuss things with me no he wasn't
willing to patch things up positively
nor was he willing to show up and and
kick my ass put it that way it was a
physical coward as well as intellectual
coward the only reasonable request
during right are made to me at that time
okay I'm coming back to that Andrew I'm
coming back to that one second sorry
just live comments here um the only
reasonable requests he made at the time
was that I apologized to freely
everything else he said was totally
unreasonable um and I actually comply
with that request there still is on my
channel an apology video too freely
which is an interesting and sincere
video by the way it's not a game it's
not I made a sincere video
saying look your boyfriend or
ex-boyfriend asked me to apologize to
you so I'm going to do it because it
makes the world a better place in a tiny
tiny way and i'm always up to do
something positive even if you don't
deserve it because i made freely did not
deserve an apology video but whatever
during writers upset so he totally could
have taken that as an out he could have
taken that to say okay you apologized to
freely let's make something positive
happen but also if he wants to catch a
fade if he wants to put his fist in my
face i offered show up for that too
right so there's a question here from
from andrew sorry so what would it
Andrew ask right so this Andrew I don't
know if you just tuned in but I was
saying I was addressing Jeff's original
criticism me in two categories so one of
them have just finished addressing one
of them was the category of Jeff saying
that I should have stood up for myself
which it makes no sense but I can
address that criticism but as I say we
make more sense to complain that I stood
up for myself too much I did stand up
for myself and we're still going to
court and stealth than ever I'll so it's
still ongoing I didn't back down at any
point on the contrary during writer back
down so maybe during writers that should
have stood up for himself if he actually
believed in his own cause are believed
in his own words but we all know he
didn't we all know it was completely
insincere from first to last um but the
second category that you've just asked
about is um why was it in Chiang Mai now
I'd already answered that question the
time but Jeff I don't think he watched a
single video on my channel before
defaming me um so Jeff you know when he
asked well why were you in Chiang Mai
anyway it was like well look there are
already videos on my channel about that
but also i can forward you an email it
already written I have written an email
several pages long that I sent to just a
couple people who asked that question
and that email explains exactly why i
was in chiang mai when i was there why i
arrived when I did why I left when I did
because I left only a few days into the
Chiang Mai festival I arrived before it
started and I left just a few days into
the proceedings so it's just not true I
wasn't there in order to attend the
festival and it everything to do with
the job I had at the time and with
paperwork I needed to do in order to
start that job so the details are boring
but you know I had to go to the hospital
I had to get um I had to get tests done
I had to get paperwork town for the
Chinese government and then I had to
start school i'm currently in school
this is broadcasting to you now out of a
school in kunming china so there's a
very complete answer to that question
and i already had it written up as an
email that i sent to a couple other
people and nobody I
mentioned it's boring email but explains
kabuto I was there had nothing to do
with her murder I think it briefly
alludes to also what I was doing in
Chiang Mai before durianrider threatened
my life and threatened to put me in
prison etc sir is moving the suck and
put my elbow on it um and that also i
mean it's boring but like I went to the
zoo I was doing videos related to animal
rights I wasn't making videos about
during writer I wasn't interested in
writer and I was meeting up with people
who were already my fans who were in
Chiang Mai which there were tons of by
the way there were lots of people there
who did not support durianrider but he
wanted to meet with me and again Chiang
Mai's reporter my life for years and
years I can talk about that at length or
not but not a single person who's
received that email now including Jeff
Nelson nobody's written back to me and
even asked a question nobody's even had
a doubt like well I don't know um why
are you nobody's even followed up with a
question that email completely explains
why i arrived in chiang mai when i did
why left when i did and even what i was
doing there before during writer made
threats against me anyway and it's this
stuff again real life is not dramatic
real life is not a soap opera real life
is full of exactly those kinds of
details like I had to get paperwork done
for the Chinese embassy and I've been
going to Chiang Mai before during writer
has I was already involved in this part
of Southeast Asia dreams my research my
career my language study I was I've been
going to Chiang Mai well way over a
decade it's been a normal part of my
life so you know it's better question
what does anyone else doing in Chiang
Mai I don't who else speaks Thai I speak
Thai with a very strong northern dialect
accent because i'm mostly speaking
lotion I've lived in Thailand I've lived
in Laos this has been you know is really
there's nothing surprising about me
being in Chiang Mai to begin with and
then whatever was there for this reason
so i just mentioned sorry not don't want
to digress from a digression but under
that second category i was able to
without even writing it out against a
look Jeff if you want to know about this
stuff you could have just asked me um
and you didn't you never talked to you
about this you went straight to
defaming me publicly on the internet and
one you never even watch the videos on
my own channel that already explained
the situation and to you never asked me
to talk to me so this is really
seventeen-year-old behavior knows we all
know um Jeff's whole act is really he's
still like a 16 year old girl I mean now
I know this which at the time I didn't
know him maybe if I knew him better the
time I wouldn't have bothered maybe I
would have just said Jeff you can hang
guys you know I I don't want to deal
with your I didn't know how
immature he was he's shockingly immature
for a grown man but Jeff's whole act was
he was just manufacturing drama out of
the stuff completely insincerely and he
did as mentioned publicly you know
defame me and insult me in this kind of
derivative way on the internet and as
they didn't even have the interest of
watch it was already on my youtube
channel let alone do anything else but
whatever that's what we need to expect
from a sixteen-year-old youtube or
plenty of 16 year olds on youtube did
exactly that so in some ways it's not
surprising it's just surprising because
he says 60 60 plus your old man so as i
said before you expect the best about
people you try to do something positive
and in my case I'm not trying to do
something positive to get views or get
promotion I'm trying to do something
positive because I really think about
veganism as a political movement I'm
thinking you know I'm thinking long term
about trying to make the world a better
place blah blah blah all right now Jeff
recently has responded to me by doing
the same thing has son did I don't know
how old his son is Willie looks like a
teenager he could be 21 for all I know
but Jeff Nelson and his son Willie
Nelson great name they just improvised
the worst kind of defamation possible me
that is made up garbage on the spot
including and this is just hilarious to
me like including claiming that I never
went to university and including making
statements about my divorce and my
daughter saying I'm a divorced parent
that I shouldn't have the legal right to
see my own daughter really low now again
if sixteen-year-old does this one thing
Jeff's over 60 and he's doing it you
know for no good reason so Jeff
repeatedly
gave me permission to read his email on
the internet he didn't you see that
privately did it publicly on a YouTube
like he made statements on YouTube
saying well I told izel to read out my
email like to share my email and I don't
see why he didn't do that and he did
that because he felt he'd given me good
advice he just one you want to show the
good advice evening um I don't know if
I'm gonna skip through this or read the
whole thing but here's here's email I
got from Jeff Nelson back on july 26th
2016 the first two sentences here are
high izel thanks for your note period
impressive cv period now in a sense
that's the most important two sentences
here one first part is thanks for your
note so you can tell it's not a very
long email sent before he calls it a
note and he says impressive cv so Jeff
is pretending he doesn't know that I've
been to university he's pretending he
doesn't know what kind of jobs I've had
in the past he's pretending that I've
been forever unemployed he's made up all
this garbage that any 16 year old makeup
and that his own sons and daughters are
now making about me he's defaming the
lowest most pathetic way possible but
the reality is and he's also pretended
that my emails to him were insane and
they're not they're totally reasonable
but the first thing he says here is oh
thanks for your note impressive CV he's
seen my CV you seen my resume he knows
where I've been to University he knows
what kind of jobs are done in the past
and he founds it impressive that's his
actual response when he's not pretending
to be a fictional character on the
internet to try to get views and
attention like a teenager which like I
say for a man his age is especially you
know lacking and dignity but its lucky
dignity for everyone if you're 16 you
shouldn't do it either I think if you're
16 your parents should take you aside
and explained to you what it is you're
doing wrong when you when you engage in
defamation that way okay so I'm gonna
continue reading Jeff Nelson's email to
me because again he gave me permission
he encouraged me to share this suggests
there's a question asking i think is
this Precourt no hide everyone in the
chat this is a live conversation um so
Jeff's letter continues
why I didn't write to you before is I
have a life while you were having your
drama I was in Hawaii helping my wife
who is still recovering from a very
serious accident last year she was run
over by a truck spent a few weeks in the
hospital had five surgeries has been
going from wheelchair to Walker to cane
to walking on her own and she was
finally in good enough shape to get away
and have a vacation for the first time
in a long time so pause so they were on
vacation Hawaii now it's blows my mind
Jeff I'm sorry to hear that your wife
had a car accident I am sorry to hear
that that's sad but that has nothing to
do with why right now ie right at the
time this email is written you have
defamed me and insulted me and made
these demands on me because he liked
demanded i explain why i'm in chiang mai
at that time sorry past tense why I was
in Chiang Mai at that time etc like why
are you doing that the internet and in
the way that he did why are you
insulting me but using stupid lines like
who put your big boy pants on and stand
up for yourself he doesn't even know I
did stand up for myself what are you
talking about there is no connection and
there is no justification between your
wife being hit by a truck and this
conduct in your part one doesn't explain
the other not even in terms of the
timeline because they're months apart I
mean if you were apologizing to me which
he's not saying I'm sorry I made some
crazy statements the internet because I
was so upset I did it at the same time
as my wife being hit by a truck alright
there's some connection it still doesn't
really excuse your behavior but this is
just the most meaningless excuse making
if this was what a teenager said to
their professor for why they turned in
an essay late it would still be lame it
would still be stupid but this is a man
over 60 years old explaining to me why
he's defamed me on the internet why he's
picked a fight with me on the internet
and also why he took durianrider side at
a time when no
supporting durianrider at a time when
even vegan gains who before that was
close friends with derm vegan gains
stood up and said during rider this is
the line you're crossing the line and
that was the role of every moral
self-respecting vegan personality on
youtube at that time was to stand up and
be counted so look there is a line were
against this kind of violence were
against this kind of defamation and Jeff
Nelson went to the opposite extreme and
just showed he's willing to back up
during writers will get him an extra
five thousand views that's it so I mean
some people stood up into the right
thing some people sat down and did
nothing and some people like Jeff just
showed that they were Fame which
is how Jeff conduct himself and Jeff if
you're a Fame the fact that your
wife got hit by a truck just months
prior has nothing to do with it the jury
was need much higher so so a very long
time earlier a year earlier she was hit
by a truck and whatever four months
before this message she was still going
through recovery fine but how is this
explain your behavior how does explain
even why your content of this email your
writing email but he's writing to me and
I already sent him an email providing
explanation for why I was in Chiang Mai
at that time I was going on in my life
which again why are you demanding this
from me this way ridiculous but anyway I
continue reading Jeff's message here he
says so I wasn't exactly spending a lot
of time on the web mostly just checking
in from time to time on my email and
tumblr period okay again fine this is
the same thing with happy healthy vegan
and others don't say well I haven't seen
any of your videos but don't say well I
didn't actually watch what eyes'll said
about happened what happened in Chiang
Mai but based on my having watched five
minutes of what durianrider said here's
my opinion is ridiculous and again
whether you're 16 years old six years
old okay great explanation Jeff so over
this period of months you came to the
conclusion that I was in the wrong when
again even people like vegan gains
figured out that I was in the right Jeff
didn't this is the approach you took
it's not an excuse Jeff before you take
that position you could take the time to
watch the one video on my channel that
for example in just a couple of minutes
shows the screenshots of what
durianrider said to me the threats he
made the defamation that he was going to
be
me up take me to the police station
centers you didn't even do that Jeff you
just decided to strike a pose to see if
you get some attention on the net like a
teenager so Jeff's right some really
insulting stuff to me here for no reason
he says is any of this registering with
you izel ? or are you just going to
ignore and go back to thinking about
yourself and whatever it is you want
very insulting very teenage language for
no reason because Jeff you never stepped
up with me you insulted me publicly for
no good reason and i replied by
providing you with the answers to your
questions even though they were
unreasonable one what was i doing in
chiang mai to why didn't i stand up for
myself the answers i did stand up for
myself because he didn't know the basic
facts of the case and this is his
response it's really insulting and
stupid and childish alright um maybe my
wife and that situation is more
important than you and your situation
that's what Jeff says Jeff I didn't ask
you to get involved you insulted me
publicly on the Internet if your wife is
more important that would explain why
you said nothing but you started this
fight with me and you are feeling to
recognize that you're pretending I
started something with you when I didn't
he continues this is all obviously super
important to you so I could ask you the
same thing you asked me why didn't you
email me sooner if you felt that was so
important your situation I hate this
gonna go well this is all super pretty
dude I did a fundraiser I raised more
than 6,500 dollars in one day for all of
veganism that's really an interesting
landmark that's pretty important that's
pretty interesting a whole bunch of
people stood up and said during Ryder
here's the line you crossed the line and
they were going to donate money to my
legal fund to take him to court just to
demonstrate that point and Jeff you
weren't one of them that's okay you can
say nothing but why insult me and defame
me on the internet because now he's
really gotten into you know totally
ludicrous defamation
um anyway so you know there's some other
insulting nonsense here I just feel like
skipping over cuz it just stuff that
makes no sense um so I mean like he says
something he says like guilt by
association is abominable what are you
trying to say Jeff do you think I'm
treating you as guilty by association I
never getting this stuff to you Jeff I
never came at you you came at me anyway
he then says anyhow I'd rather
communicate with you when you've cooled
down if you're interested in anything
that I have to say I really don't want
to do a skype because I don't know you I
don't know if it would be taped or
whatever but it doesn't establish a lot
of trust when you write to me I respond
and then discover you've done a silly
video about me which i'm not going to
watch again i love this self-righteous
thing of like oh well i haven't watched
any videos on your channel but great if
there's something specific you want to
talk to me about and not just vent why
don't you give that a shot this is the
the brilliance of Jeff Nelson so I mean
you know the guy started this thing with
me on the net I could read my reply to
him but I mean the fundamental thing is
talking to Jeff Nelson this way he was
just too stupid to understand what was
going on the whole the reality of the
situation was before he communicated
with me privately he was too stupid to
know what happened in Chiang Mai what
during writer did why hundreds of people
donated money to my legal cause why so
many people including vegan gains stood
up and sport he did not know what
happened and he struck a pose on it he
tried to make an extreme you know edgy
statement just to get views and
attention and he insulted me and then
after I replied to him after I gave him
reasonable answers to his unreasonable
questions he was still just too stupid
to know what was going on um
anyway I could read my reply to him I
mean I'm just going to pull out a
sentence here because I wrote a reply to
that message I sent out to him you made
two videos that directly pertain to
durianrider freely and myself two of
them so you cannot say that you don't
have time or that you're not involved it
cetera just positive if your point is
you're constantly taking care of your
your wife who got hit by a truck you
have time to make multiple videos
addressing this issue but not to watch
the videos on my channel that even say
what the issue was or what happened he
had already made it this one two videos
on this topic so I said you know I never
lifted a finger to make you involve that
was a decision you made he made the
decision to get involved and yes again
your response is and you
disrespected me repeatedly both in the
video and in written comments those are
decisions you made as a grown man I
didn't ask him to get involved I didn't
do anything that involved him he chose
to get involved and he put in the time
and effort to at this point already make
two videos and he made written comments
on YouTube and on his blogs etc I had
nothing to do with that he again I think
he was just like a teenager trying to
get attention trying to get views
without even figure what situation was I
then say further I'm again I'm just
taking a quote from this email I said
you have chosen consistently in public
statements to trivialize what
durianrider did serious crimes seriously
bad for veganism apart from being
seriously bad for myself personally you
have made lame excuses and you have been
dismissive contemptuous and insulting
toward me publicly I realize that has
the potential to change right now and
that the emails you're sending me are
much more thoughtful by contrast and I
appreciate that however I'm being honest
about the basis were working from so
just I'll leave it there but even that
statement it shows how reasonable I'm
willing to be in trying to build
something positive people whether we're
talking about vegan
Ava or Jeff or any of these people what
says look actually this even true about
close the guy does plant-based news when
I talk to close I said look the point is
not that I'm complaining you know this
can move forward positively we can work
together positively but it's going to
start by being me being honest with you
about the basis that we're working from
now so the basis is you've insulted me
publicly on the internet or you've
believed a bunch of lies that during
writers said without questioning them or
like in Jeff's case the basis is that
you continue to make videos attacking me
and about my situation without watching
the videos that are my channel first or
without talking to me privately etc etc
that's the basis we're going to move
forward from now okay we're talking to a
60 year old man man over 60 maybe I'm
wildly optimistic to think hey maybe he
can set this aside and work forward
positively it would have been the
easiest thing in the world for Jeff to
write back to that and say hey you know
what you're right I was misinformed Jeff
could have written back and said hey you
know what um I believed a bunch of
rumors and lies in the Internet
including what during writer said you're
right and you know what what's really
important here is veganism and I've
taken the time and looked at some of the
videos on your channel on a ballast yell
and I realize you're making real content
that's really about veganism it's not
just about drama or it's not just about
rumors and gossip and nonsense he could
have taken the time and said hey I
realized that people like vegan gains
stepped up and made the decision to
support you for good reason I realized
that people donated 6500 your legal fund
through his hey you know what this is a
real situation and I stumbled into it
without knowing what was going on and I
made some videos that just don't really
make any sense and I'm sorry for a man
over 60 that's not asking a lot I'm SD
this is not some new and unseen level of
maturity for him to be capable of but as
we all know Jeff never did that on the
contrary he really doubled down on
defaming me and ultimately on supporting
durianrider of saying during writers
write in a situation where nobody
familiar with the facts nobody you've
seen the one video on my channel giving
you the screenshots of just what
durianrider said nobody sports with your
reminder did
defamation is wrong it's bad for me it's
bad for the movement it's bad for
veganism it's bad for YouTube thank you
defamation as a crime we're talking
about criminal defamation is bad and
it's wrong we're not even going to
debate that right um threats of violence
are bad and they're wrong and during
writer had done that again and again I
wasn't his first victim I probably won't
be his last so there was an outright
call to say um we need to draw the line
we need to stand up and say no more
because durianrider is going to keep
doing this until someone stands up and
says you can't do it anymore because
durianrider from his own perspective was
making money and getting Fame and
getting attention and getting the
approval of people like Jeff Nelson by
engaging in defamation and threats of
violence and that's why the fundraiser
was cold vegans against violence and
defamation and again I I had no interest
in asking Jeff Nelson decide to stand up
and make it a statement in support of my
cause I never heard of the guy at that
point I didn't recognize the name
couldn't care less but Jeff he it's not
just that he didn't support it it's not
just that he was silent he went on the
other extreme where he thought this was
his chance to stunt this is his chance
to get a little bit of attention from
the young folks to be young and hip and
trendy up by insulting me so that's it
guys that's the whole backstory and the
problem is with someone like Jeff when I
talk to him I assumed he was being
sincere I assumed that when he asked me
well what were you doing in Chiang Mai
anyway I assume that was sincere
interest and if it was then when he got
the factual answer to the question that
would have changed his position in
perspective this is a difference between
a troll and dealing with the sincere
person in politics right but when I
provided the answer that question and he
recognized it was factional he
recognized that was in the right it
changed nothing Jeff continued being a
complete dishonest drama mongering
after he had the facts provided
to him that he requests and getting
requests them by emailing me he
requested them by insulting me public
so that's who jeff is and that's the
game he's playing and his kids are
playing the same game and worse under
his tutelage which is really very sad on
vegan cheetahs Channel I saw Jeff's son
Willie seriously engaging in defamation
against me you know defamation by the
criminal definition of defamation I
don't mean serious and sensitive was I
mean he was joking around obviously he
was just making stuff out of his head if
you were Jeff yeah hi soy I'm talking
about you have Nelson if you are Jeff
Nelson if you are this young man's son
it is absolutely your role to take your
son aside and say look you can't do this
it's a crime it's immoral it's harms
people it's bad for you it's bad for the
person you're defaming it's bad for
veganism as a movement it's even bad for
YouTube as a medium this is bad and it's
wrong and you have to stop that's what a
father should do a father over 60 years
old but Jeff Nelson can never tell his
son that because Jeff Nelson himself is
engaged in exactly the same game he's
acting like a chicken headed teenager
he's acting like a complete and
doing the same thing and just making up
defamation and insults off the top of
his head both in situations where he
knows nothing about what's going on and
in this situation where he's lying about
what I said to him an email what he said
to me an email he's lying about my job
my career my divorce my relationship
with my own daughter he's Jeff Nelson
himself as the father is going for the
lowest of the low level of defamation so
what do you expect his son to do son is
just as bad or worse that is really sad
to see now in terms of his relationship
with his daughters um you know I do
think to put it bluntly that if your
daughter's if you're wealthy as Jeff
boasts he is he's very proud he's very
happy to boast of how much money he's
got if you're wealthy your daughters
should not be doing a commercial for
Taco Bell I can understand if it's
straight up poverty and you just own it
I would totally sympathize if someone
who was vegan came on the internet and
just said hey they're vegan but they're
flat broke and they had no choice but to
work at McDonald's or do an
advertisement for donald's I'd say yo I
respect the player respect with respect
the game I respect the struggle and
that's it poverty is poverty
people do not have a better choice no
better option but we all know that's not
true about Jeff Jeff is boasting even
while he's insulting me about richness
so why are your daughters given their
status as leaguers leaders in the vegan
community leaders who don't believe in
ethical veganism leaders who don't
believe in cruelty-free veganism I mean
it just had those clips in that video
their figures who are making statements
that marked them out as being almost
aunty vegan or anti ethical veganism
there I guess their dietary vegans or
whatever you want to say I guess they're
just plant-based why do you have your
daughter's prostituting themselves in
videos like the lake my body challenge
if you're rich why do you have your
daughter's selling out the core tenets
of veganism by making an advertisement
for Taco Bell yes I think that's
shameful yes I think that's something
meaningful to engage in critique of and
I'm not the first to do it not going to
be the last and I've heard Jeff's reply
to that I've unlike Jeff I don't come on
say oh well I haven't seen anything on
his channel but here's my pin no I've
heard Jeff's explanation and F Ferdinand
Randy's explanation and you know my
steez I'm keeping it real to me their
explanation is garbage whereas as i said
if someone just came out and talked
about straight up poverty course i would
understand that and there were vegans in
the military and there are vegans who
work at McDonald's I've talked to all
kinds of vegans who do struggle with
poverty or limited money and ye'll I
myself I know you guys don't want to
hear it but contradicted too many rumors
I'm not affluent it is hard for me to
feed myself even here in China and it
was hard in Saskatchewan it was hard at
many places live I know that struggle
but this is not about the struggle sadly
this is about a man who's had an
incredibly negative impact on veganism
as a movement in the past couple of
years and he's still having a negative
impact and he's creating conflict and
drama out and nothing because he's more
than 60 years old but he still has the
mentality of a teenager and some of the
most direct influence we've seen him
have is on his own son and on his own
daughters and then the impact they have
on veganism so no I'm not about to
apologize for questioning that I'm not
about to apologize for bringing that
issue forward
also not about to apologize to the fact
that at a time when Jeff had insulted me
on the internet repeatedly months ago I
still approached him with an open mind
and an open heart to see if we could
make something positive happen when
people do insult me in the internet
again and again even vegan Ava even
terrible people said terrible things
about me and suddenly as well me and my
daughter and my ex-wife people have
taken it all the way low I still do a
person with an open heart open mind for
the cause to see if to see if something
positive can come from it but with
people like Jeff a lot of the time to
answer is simply no